.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) Caldera International Inc.  2001-2002.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code and documentation must retain the above
.\"    copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed or owned by Caldera
.\"	International, Inc.
.\" 4. Neither the name of Caldera International, Inc. nor the names of other
.\"    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
.\"    this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" USE OF THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED FOR UNDER THIS LICENSE BY CALDERA
.\" INTERNATIONAL, INC. AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL CALDERA INTERNATIONAL, INC. BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
.\" IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)term.7	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/5/93
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: May 26 2009 $
.Dt TERM 7
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm term
.Nd conventional names for terminals
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Certain commands use these terminal names. They are maintained
as part of the shell environment (see
.Xr sh 1 ,
.Xr environ 7 ) .
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width network_ -offset indent -compact
.It 2621
Hewlett-Packard HP262? series terminals
.It 735
Texas Instruments TI735 (and TI725)
.It 745
Texas Instruments TI745
.It 4014
Tektronix 4014
.It adm3a
Lear Seigler Adm-3a
.It c100
Human Designed Systems Concept 100
.It dialup
a terminal on a phone line with no known characteristics
.It dumb
terminals with no special features
.It h19
Heathkit H19
.It hp
Hewlett-Packard HP264? series terminals
.It mime
Microterm mime in enhanced ACT IV mode
.It network
a terminal on a network connection with no known characteristics
.It ps
PostScript interpreter
.It vt100
Digital Equipment Corp. VT100
.It xterm
a workstation running X
.El
.Pp
The list goes on and on.
Consult
.Pa /usr/share/misc/termcap (see
.Xr termcap 5 )
for an up-to-date and locally correct list.
.Pp
Commands whose behavior may depend on the terminal either consult TERM in
the environment, or accept arguments of the form
.Fl Tterm ,
where
.Nm term
is one of the names given above.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr clear 1 ,
.Xr ex 1 ,
.Xr more 1 ,
.Xr plot 1
.Xr sh 1 ,
.Xr stty 1 ,
.Xr troff 1
.Xr tset 1 ,
.Xr ul 1 ,
.Xr termcap 3 ,
.Xr termcap 5 ,
.Xr ttys 5
.Xr environ 7
.Sh BUGS
The programs that ought to adhere to this nomenclature do so only fitfully.
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm Term
appeared in
.At 32v .
