.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1985, 1993, 1994
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) Caldera International Inc.  2001-2002.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code and documentation must retain the above
.\"    copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed or owned by Caldera
.\"	International, Inc.
.\" 4. Neither the name of Caldera International, Inc. nor the names of other
.\"    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
.\"    this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" USE OF THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED FOR UNDER THIS LICENSE BY CALDERA
.\" INTERNATIONAL, INC. AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL CALDERA INTERNATIONAL, INC. BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
.\" IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)plot.5	6.3 (Berkeley) 4/29/91
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt PLOT 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm plot
.Nd graphics interface
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Files of this format are produced by routines described in 
.Xr plot 3
and are interpreted for various devices by commands described in
.Xr plot 1 .
A graphics file is a stream of plotting instructions.
Each instruction consists of an ASCII letter
usually followed by bytes of binary information.
The instructions are executed in order.
A point is designated by four bytes representing the
x and y values; each value is a signed integer.
The last designated point in an
.Nm l ,
.Nm m ,
.Nm n ,
.Nm a ,
or
.Nm p
instruction becomes the
.Sq current point
for the next instruction.
The
.B a
and
.B c
instructions change the current point in a manner dependent
upon the specific device.
.Pp
Each of the following descriptions begins with the name
of the corresponding routine in
.Xr plot 3 .
.Bl -tag -width xx
.It m
move: The next four bytes give a new current point.
.It n
cont: Draw a line from the current point to
the point given by the next four bytes.
.It p
point: Plot the point given by the next four bytes.
.It l
line: Draw a line from the point given by the next
four bytes to the point given by the following four bytes.
.It t
label: Place the following ASCII string so that its
first character falls on the current point.
The string is terminated by a newline.
.It a
arc:
The first four bytes give the center, the next four give the starting
point, and the last four give the end point of a circular arc.
The least significant coordinate of the end point is
used only to determine the quadrant.
The arc is drawn counter-clockwise.
.It c
circle:
The first four bytes give the center of the circle,
the next two the radius.
.It e
erase: Start another frame of output.
.It f
linemod: Take the following string, up to a newline,
as the style for drawing further lines.
The styles are
.Sq dotted ,
.Sq solid ,
.Sq longdashed ,
.Sq shortdashed ,
and
.Sq dotdashed .
Effective only in 
.Nm 4014
and
.Nm ver .
.It s
space: The next four bytes give
the lower left corner of the plotting area;
the following four give the upper right corner.
The plot will be magnified or reduced to fit
the device as closely as possible.
.Br
Space settings that exactly fill the plotting area
with unity scaling appear below for devices supported by the filters of
.Xr plot 1 .
The upper limit is just outside the plotting area.
In every case the plotting area is taken to be square;
points outside may be displayable on devices whose face isn't square.
.Pp
Default spaces for various terminals are as listed below:
.Bl -tag -width xxxxx
.It 300
space(0, 0, 4096, 4096);
.It 450
space(0, 0, 4096, 4096);
.It 4013
space(0, 0, 780, 780);
.It 4014
space(0, 0, 3120, 3120);
.It PS
space(0, 0, 4096, 4096);
.It ver
space(0, 0, 2048, 2048);
.El
.El
.Sh "SEE ALSO"
.Xr graph 1 ,
.Xr plot 1 ,
.Xr plot 3 .
.Sh BUGS
A
.Nm label
instruction immediately followed by a
.Nm cont
instruction does the wrong thing on a 4014.
