.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2010 Konrad Merz
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: July 18 2010 $
.Dt BUILD 8
\!\" Originally created by Konrad Merz -- 2010-07-18, kmerz@aeriebsd.org
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm build
.Nd things to do to build the system
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Ss Preamble
This is a quick guide to build your system from the sources. Please read
the instructions carefully and completely to gain a system build by your
own hands. We assume that the fetched sources will be laid at /usr/src
where they belong to. We further assume that the instructions will be done as
user root so you can not just build but also install the system. If you
find yourself in problems with building the system by following this guide
please write a mail with the solution to your problem to
.Pp
.Dl hackers@aeriebsd.org
.Pp
In general it is always a good idea to read the manpages of the tools you use
if you are running in problems. Also search for your problem in the internet
probably someone else already got a solution for your problem.
.Ss Checkout Sources
To build the system you need to fetch the sources, at first. Use the
.Xr cvs 1
command to checkout the sources from a anonymous cvs server.
The checkout command with the main anonymus server can look like this:
.Pp
.Dl cvs -q -danoncvs@anoncvs.aeriebsd.org:/cvs checkout -P src
.Pp
For a list of anonymus cvs server take a look at:
.Pp
.Dl http://aeriebsd.org/anoncvs.html
.Pp
Please also read the manpage for further help with
.Xr cvs 1 .
.Ss Building Build Tools
First step of all should be a
.Pp
.Dl make obj
.Pp
which will help to keep your src/ directory clean. It is highly recommended
to build and install the build tools before all others. Start by installing
the makefiles of the checkout sources with:
.Pp
.Dl cd share/mk; make install
.Pp
This will copy the system makefiles to the default directory where they can be
found by the building tools.
Now we come to the compiler. Go to the directory and build the compiler
.Xr pcc 1
with its dependencies by typing following to the command line:
.Pp
.Dl cd usr.bin/pcc/; make depend; make; make install
.Pp
Now proceed in the same way with the following tools in order:
.Xr xlint 1 ,
.Xr as 1 ,
.Xr ld 1 ,
.Xr nroff 1 ,
.Xr make 1 ,
.Xr sh 1 ,
.Xr sed 1
and
.Xr awk 1 .
.Ss Building the Kernel
In the next step we will build the kernel of the system. These steps are
describing how to build a generic kernel for a i386 architecture. For other
architectures the steps should be similar. At first change to the arch/
directory of your architecture and execute
.Xr config 8 .
.Pp
.Dl cd sys/arch/i386/config; config GENERIC
.Pp
This will generate the directory sys/arch/i386/compile/GENERIC with the
needed files to compile the kernel. We change to this directory and will
build the kernel now.
.Pp
.Dl cd ../compile/GENERIC; make clean; make depend; make; make install
.Pp
Now
.Xr reboot 8
your machine to use the new kernel. After rebooting the machine change to
the src/ directory and finish building your system.
.Ss Building Rest of the System
The rest of the system is easy to build. Change into the src/ directory
and make it.
.Pp
.Dl make build
.Pp
Now all your system is build up from scratch.
.Xr reboot 8
your machine again to start your system with the so created binaries.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cvs 1 ,
.Xr make 1 ,
.Xr pcc 1 ,
.Xr config 1 ,
.Xr reboot 8
.Sh HISTORY
The build manpage first appeared in Aeriebsd.
